Hello
So, today I don’t speak in Thai,
right?
So,
English,
Y’all understand English,
Right?
Okay.
So,
let's switch.
I will talk about
TDD, right?
So,
test-driven development.
Okay.
So,
every time I say TDD,
it's really about test-driven development.
but first i have a couple of questions for you
for me to understand
what is your level in term of
testing first, right?
so if you can just raise your hand
if you understand the question
so who knows about unit tests?
Oh wow, not a lot.
So who skipped the unit test?
Okay,
now it's more.
So who knows—
who's using Jest a little bit?
Okay,
a little bit.
Okay.
Who knows about the mocks?
Mock,
mock.
No.
Oh,
one.
Okay,
good.
Smaller and smaller.
We'll see.
Who already tried test-driven development?
one over there,
two,
okay.
Hello,
All right,
so,
oh,
okay.
All right,
so what about me?
So I'm Olivier.
I'm
French,
but in English,
I'm Oliver.
I have 2 children.
I work in a couple of countries,
USA,
Poland,
also Singapore.
In terms of work,
so now I'm working at FWD in innovation,
but I also worked as engineering manager and also technical coach for different companies.
My main expertise is about API,
domain-driven design,
test automation,
and continuous delivery.
And I'm passionate about Rocket League,
so I don't know if there is some good player of Rocket League.
And I'm also passionate about open source.
When it comes to open source,
I build a test automation framework.
So it's online now,
called RestQA.
It's more focused on testing microservices,
so you guys can check.
All right,
let's talk about the agenda.
Agenda for me is to share with you as a manager why the testing is important.
Because...
Many talk is about technical,
technical,
technical.
The technical needs to serve a purpose.
And this is why
I will share as a manager how we can understand unit test,
what is test-driven development,
and how you can set it up for yourself.
Very important for you as a manager,
every time I interview
an engineer showing me that he's doing test-driven development,
100 percent of the time,
I will hire him.
So this is why this presentation is very important for you guys.
So first is why do we need unit tests?
Let's take a very simple use case where we need to measure the room,
size of the room.
Thank you.
I think it doesn't like people speak English here.
Yes.
Okay,
so most of us will just...
Oh,
sorry.
Let's go back.
We'll just create a small function like this,
and we ship production,
right?
And sometimes,
some of us will just try to write the unit test to verify.
if our function is working.
So for the people that don't know unit test,
it's really we try to write a function that will check if this.
It's really good.
Okay.
So everything is working.
We are happy.
We can party.
We can go home.
It's okay.
Now,
let's say I have a new engineer coming in the team.
He wants to change a little bit the code.
Okay,
why not?
So we run the test.
The test is still working.
That's perfect.
And then changing again because he prefers arrows function,
you know,
preference.
Some developers like to change.
And one refactor again.
One-liner.
This time we have a bug,
right?
And this is the new engineer.
And this is me crying because we want to go home instead of trying to debug.
But what happened is...
the new engineer tried to put an object instead of a simple parameter.
So the unit test breaks,
and this is why we need to have unit test to tell us something is wrong.
But what I'm trying to explain here,
it's the main purpose of the unit test,
right?
It's not to verify the code.
The technical part is to verify the code.
But as a company,
what we want is to make it refactorable without impacting the business.
Because as a manager,
I will have a big team,
and I want everybody in the team
to be able to go in the code
and change everything they want
without having some bug in production.
Yes,
that's starting to be a bit complex,
but let's try to slow down a little bit.
When I say refactoring,
refactoring means we can change the library.
Instead of using Axios,
we want to use Fetch.
It's okay,
no problem.
It can be a language change.
Instead of using the whole JavaScript,
now we want to use TypeScript.
It's okay.
We can still make it happen.
Or it can be a data change,
right?
So instead of database,
we want to get the data from API.
It can happen.
Or now we can have code generated by AI.
So our code basically needs to change a lot,
right?
From the day we write it.
and the day we use it until today
it can be a lot and a lot of changes
so this is why I want to explain like
how TDD really help us
to make a better refactoring.
That's a lot. Okay, so first,
We need to write the question.
And this is what is the most complicated for all of us,
is how we write the unit test first.
Because the unit test has to be the question we have for the code.
This is a simple question I ask.
I want to generate a PDF.
So what I will do,
I will just...
Oh,
sorry.
Every time I messed up.
I will have my content.
I have my function which is create
PDF report and after I'm just checking that the PDF exists.
Very very simple.
It has to be based on the requirements,
easy to understand,
so as you can see it's only a couple of lines.
We try to avoid technical words because technology changes a lot.
function from the business stay the same
so we try to use business words
and we try to avoid the mock
so that's what we need to do first
writing the unit test
so this is the question i have
and after — only after — I can
start writing the answer which
is the code okay
and what's going to happen for example
We write the code in January 2022,
the first version of the code.
But in April,
we discover we have an issue with Windows.
So we change a little bit the code,
but...
The test is still passing,
so we can keep changing the code,
but the function stays the same and we still have a good unit test.
When it comes to one year later,
we discover that the report is getting bigger,
bigger,
bigger.
So we need to change again the library.
So instead of using pdf.js,
I try to use pdf.
Instead of using pdf,
I use pdf.js.
Very simple,
small change.
The unit test is okay.
It's still working in production,
no issue.
And then another year later,
we discover that pdf.js,
which is open source,
is not maintained anymore.
We have a lot of security issues,
so we need to change again.
So I can change very easily again just by changing a couple of lines,
right?
And all of my logic
It's still okay because my test is very simple and tell me that your logic is still working.
And this is what I call refactoring
and this is what is very important
for me as a manager
is to ensure like when my engineer
needs to change the code
he knows that he
will not break something.
And things gonna change for sure,
as we saw,
this code base is three years old
and for sure we had to change.
the library many times.
Okay.
Now,
how do we start?
Because this is the high level part,
but let's try to find a little bit of action to start.
Because now the key challenge is
how we write the question
so the unit test
from an easier and a faster way.
The first thing I want to say to all of you
is like first stop using Jest.
Okay.
Because Jest is when you do npm install,
it's a lot of dependency coming in that we don't need.
Okay.
Most of the time we need to have very small test.
And Jest is good for front end.
But if you do back end,
you don't need it for sure.
Instead,
you can use node --test
So this.
is a function from node 18 that you can directly run the test inside Node.js.
So same for the jest --watch,
you can have
node --test --watch
And the way we use it is exactly the same,
right?
We go from importing the library
and just writing the test.
The only difference with Jest is like you need to do an import.
and it has all the same functions as Jest like assert to check your results,
description and even the mock but we don't want to do mock but it's okay.
Alright so that's for the first part so that's the easy part.
Second part is how we do
TDD on the computer.
Basically,
we need to split the window in three,
very simple,
where we write the question on the left,
the answer on the right,
and we keep having tests running on the bottom.
Of course,
if you have a lot of tests,
it can be slow,
but nowadays with a good machine like the M1,
M2 from Apple,
It's a lot faster.
All right.
Now,
one of the key challenge
when we do the testing is,
of course,
when we have API.
Because if you have an API that need to call line or that need to call
GitHub, it's very annoying when you test.
So that's why my first recommendation,
again,
is stop using Axios and start using Undici.
So what is Undici?
Undici is a new...
HTTP clients that's been built
by the Node.js core team actually.
It has a lot of performance compared to Axios.
So as you can see here in the example,
it's very simple.
We just need to do a request and that's it.
But that's not the part that is interesting us.
The most important part is how we write the test.
Again,
because we don't want to call GitHub when we run the test.
And we don't mock as well.
So what we're going to do,
we're going to intercept.
What's the intercept?
It means every time in the test,
you will create a mock agent.
and you will say to that mock agent that if you see a request going to GitHub as a get,
you want to reply 200 foobar.
So it means now you can directly test your function without having to mock all the libraries.
So that makes your code a lot better and easier to refactor.
The other good thing is
Undici can intercept requests from other libraries,
so from Axios,
from got,
and so on.
Okay.
All right.
Another one which is very hard when we do tests is how to mock MongoDB because,
of course,
when we run application,
we have data inside,
right?
So there is a very good library called TestContainer.
I don't know if you guys know it,
but that's changed a lot the game in time of testing.
What test container?
So basically every time you run the test,
what's going to happen?
It will use Docker to spin up a small container.
It could be Postgres,
Kafka,
Elasticsearch,
MongoDB,
or anything you want,
right?
Run the test,
connect to that container,
run the test,
and after destroy that container.
So that's for me was like mind blowing
because now we don't need to mock anymore
the connection to any of this system.
I don't know if some of you
already worked with Kafka,
but testing Kafka is really annoying.
But once you have this,
it's becoming a lot easier.
So that's why the way to do it is just like in a couple of lines like this.
20 lines where we just.
Run the container MongoDB.
Then we directly get the information about our container,
the IP and the port.
And then we can start writing our test.
So we inject data in the container.
We run our business function.
And we check the results.
So it means now,
if I want to write the code using...
the official MongoDB client,
I can.
Or if I just want to change the library and use Mongoose,
I also can.
My test on the left will still be okay.
It will not have any issue.
So now I know that I can go in production with the old or the new client.
Another good benefit is,
I don't know if it happened to you,
but on your machine
you have MongoDB version 8.
and the company is still using the version 6,
right?
But a lot of functions are different.
So what you can do when you use Test Container,
you can ask Test Container to run your test on different versions of MongoDB,
so it will ensure that your test is good enough for every version as well.
So that's very important.
Okay,
so now let's talk about
AI.
Actually...
What I just want to say about AI is today,
all of us is using AI to generate some code,
right?
But most of the engineers I see is using it the wrong way,
Because if we understand correctly
what I try to say,
ChatGPT actually is the best partner for test-driven development.
Because when you write the test first,
it means you ask your question first.
And what we try to do every time is to ask...
question to ChatGPT,
right?
What is this function?
Why is this is not working?
Why,
why,
right?
So that's the same thing,
actually.
If you write your test first,
you will write a very good question for ChatGPT.
So the test is becoming the question.
So then it means like…
the test is becoming the prompt.
And as we just saw in the previous presentation,
If your prompt is very well defined,
you will have a very accurate answer.
So that's why if you use ChatGPT
to generate code,
you better put your test in ChatGPT and ask ChatGPT to give you the actual function.
I do this a lot.
Then I don't need to write the answer by myself and get ChatGPT to get the answer for me.
Okay.
So.
In that case,
conclusion.
This is a very advanced topic,
but again,
like I said,
once I have one engineer talking to me about this,
for sure I will hire him.
Because an engineer
that understands this concept
is an engineer that's building
the code that I need in my company
to stay for a long time.
then it's an engineer that will understand
that the mock are the biggest enemy
so we mock as less as possible
so we try to intercept instead of mocking.
If we have a dependency, we intercept
the dependency but we don't mock.
AI is good but we need to use it better.
If you use it to produce
crappy code, don't use it
but if you know how to
produce very good code
I'm happy to have it too.
The best way to practice
TDD is definitely to use open source.
Because,
like I said,
I'm running now an open source project,
and everything I'm doing inside,
I'm doing it with TDD.
And this is how I'm able to provide a code that is not breaking when someone tries to use it.
And,
of course...
Test-driven development will get you a job easily.
So for the one that's already using it at work,
I will be happy to talk to you
to offer you a job right now.
That's good for me.
Thank you very much.